---
layout: post
title: "School vs Startup"
date: 2012-05-23 13:21
comments: true
categories: 
---
<p>Well, here is the part I take on all startup enthusists. Why I think dropping out or pursuing a career without a degree is bad? The most important thing I learnt from school, is that getting in is the easiest. Staying in school is the hardest. Also, the most important thing I learnt from pursuing the startup career is that, getting started is easy, staying a float is the hardest. See a similarity?</p>
<p>School shoves us with information that we may never once in our life need. The thick skinned profs will mark us as hard as possible. The school will keep tuition as high as possible. For startups, getting started there is a lot of stuff that you will have to get learning that you might not even be interested in, balance sheets, tax statements, pay roll, etc. The angel investors will ask you every challenging question possible, before throwing money at you. The cost of running your company and keeping your employees satisfied will be high and more often than not you will fall in debt unless you have an investor or are filthy rich.</p>
<p>So what is the benefit of starting your own company without school? The most common answer I get is "It is something I like and it makes me happy". But that is also the most common answer I get from people studying stuff that they are interested in yet they dont guarantee high paying careers. Hm, thats weird. Apparently, startups and schools give a similar taste of the same medicine. Interesting...now I am not an expert, but apparently if played right, being in school is like being part of a startup. The only difference and probably the biggest selling factor of startups is that you control its direction.&nbsp;</p>
<p>I honestly have nightmares of walking up to my future employees in my future company, telling them I have to cut their wages and they have to work extra. I have nightmares about calling my angel investors and telling them that we are bankrupt and shutting down. But dont worry, it is not all that gloom. Like I said, NIGHTMARES.</p>
<p>So to finish up, school opens doors. That piece of paper may be one bit of security. But the ability to withstand the crazy ups and downs of school life and most importantly keep your learning skills razor sharp, that will get you far and more prepared for starting your own company. If you can learn something you arent interested in and do well, than you can most definitely learn what you are interested in better and excel at whatever challenge your company brings.</p>
