---
layout: post
title: "Being an A**hole"
date: 2012-11-14 13:35
comments: true
categories: 
---
<p><span style="font-family: Arial;">Yes,  I am an a**hole and I am not afraid to admit it. Being through so many  challenges, obstacles and failures through life really does that to you.  Yeah I am a fun guy to talk to and hang around with. But when you start  pitching your latest startup idea, be assured I will thoroughly  question you on it (if I am not too drunk). I have met way too many  companies whose business model is to thrive on a mobile app-store; some  who want to take on industrial giants by attacking an unscratched or  barely touched niche (yes I was one of them once); many who want to  change the way some everyday technology is used; and a hand-full trying  to create a solution for a problem that they had hoping someone else in  the world has the same problem.</span></p>
<p><span style="font-family: Arial;">I  don&rsquo;t do it deliberately to put you on the spot. I do it because I  expect you to back your product up. I want to see how you react to tough  situations, whether you know the answers you needed to know for your  product. I often get: "Everyone I talked to say this is a good idea!" as  an answer. Sure, maybe it is, but can you back it up? Can you tell me  more about your target audience? How you plan to reach them? Did you ask  them if they will use and/or pay for your product?&nbsp;How will you promote  your product? What is your response to competitors? Pricing strategies?  Becoming income positive? Prevent others from copying your idea? The  list of questions goes on...</span></p>
<p><span style="font-family: Arial;">I&nbsp;<strong>tried</strong>&nbsp;starting my own startup&nbsp;<strong>TWICE</strong>!  I failed both times. Why? Well, because I didn&rsquo;t ask myself any of  those questions. In fact, no one asked me any of those questions. I  often got the "Oh that&rsquo;s a good idea" response when I pitched my ideas. I  have grown to value criticism more than praise. Praise may stroke my  ego, but criticism is what helps shape me to become better at what I  do.&nbsp;I am happy for anyone who gets his or her little mobile/web app  ideas out and "makes it big", but I will challenge you, so take it as a  way of me trying to learn from you.&nbsp;</span></p>
